# [Main Source](http://web.stanford.edu/~learnest/cart.htm)

#### The Stanford AI Cart started out as a mechanical engineering project used to support research on controlling a device remotely while using video information. The student working on the project James L. Adams started the project to prove whether or not someone on earth could drive around the moon via radio and with the help of a TV camera, the experiment concluded that this was not possible. The cart was made out of four small bicycle wheels powered with electric motors and a car battery, with a television camera with a fixed view in the forward direction. One year after its creation another mechanical engineer student, Paul W. Braisted, added an analog computer that helped predict the cars future location with a laser and based off previous actions. It was not until two years after its creation that the Stanford Cart came into the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab (SAIL). At SAIL Prof. John McCarthy was able to get the cart to automatically follow a high contrast white line at a speed of almost one mile per hour. The Stanford Carts final test came in 1979 when after nine years of work, a new camera slider that allowed the camera to move from side to side from a fixed position, and a new and improved processor the Stanford Cart was able to navigate a room filled with obstacles after five hours short video of the cart in action. The Stanford Cart now resides in the Computer History Museum in Mountain View California where it will reside until further notice.  