# AI System: Google Traffic by Erel Saul

Google Traffic is an AI system inside Google Maps which provides real time traffic conditions in more than 50 countries. The purpose of the system is to provide people a more accurate journey duration and alternative roads to take bearing in mind the traffic conditions. People who would like to plan their journeys beforehand and travel often mostly use this system to avoid using roads with more traffic and save time. In this case, the goal of the creator and the user align with each other. The system views the world as a gigantic map of roads and their traffic condition which is represented by various colors. Humans play a vital role in this system. The traffic condition is determined by by analyzing the GPS-determined locations transmitted to Google by a large number of mobile phone users. By calculating the speed of users along a length of road, Google is able to generate a live traffic map. So without the users, the system itself basically wouldn't work. That's why, this system can be considered a  statistical system since it needs input from users. Anonymity of the location data has been subject to controversy. Google has adressed privacy concerns by stating that the speed and location information it collects to calculate traffic conditions is anonymous. Google also identifies the start and end points of every trip it monitors, and permanently deletes that data so that information about where each user came from and went to remains private. Even though Google claims that the location data is safe from potential "attackers", people still worry a hostile user or third party can access their location information and this can cause a direct or indirect threat to them. There is also an opt-out option for people who doesn't want to provide Google with their location data though only few people are aware of this option. What's alarming is that most people don't even know that they are providing Google with such location data. This stirs controversy and opens ethical debate. I personally believe that Google needs to inform users about this data collection more clearly and state that there is an opt-out choice instead of trying to hide it.    