The Battle Between “The Personal Assistants”: Google Home vs. Amazon Echo

Google is in the process of working on a system called Google Home, which can be seen as a personal assistant or a quick and easy family helper. It can serve as a center of control for the entire home as it answers questions, plays requested music, etc. Google Home also implements Google Assistant, which gives it the ability to become conversational, using context to answer you questions.  This gives users the ability to use pronouns that correlate to previous questions.  The creators of this object wanted a device that acts as a way to easily do every day tasks and connect your home together.  Users can range from an everyday suburban family to corporate workers seeking a personal helper. 

Amazon Echo is also a personal assistant type cylindrical device that “wakes” up when called by the name Alexa, Amazon, or Echo. This assistant has already been released and many say that it meshes fairly flawlessly into smart homes. Some of the features include calling an Uber, ordering pizza, playing music, answering questions, tracking packages, etc. Echo also connects to other smart home devices such as Nest, Ecobee, and a handful of others. Alexa is also conversational but unlike what Google Home’s device will supposedly do she does not use context effectively and only responds with pre written answers. Users for this product are in line with whom the company designed the produce to be for, families and other workers. 

While both systems are a mix of knowledge based approaches and statistical approaches, I believe that Google Home is more statistical than Amazon Echo simply because it can interpret the conversation and use context to answer your questions rather than simply not knowing how to respond in the case of Alexa. 

In terms of how third party users can use the devices in a harmful way, it would be privacy issues with both of them. Technically, both devices are constantly listening to their surroundings but Amazon claims that Alexa only streams the sounds when it is activated by the “wake” word.  So recordings of private conversations will always be a potential problem or concern with users of the devices. 

There are benefits to both devices but there are distinct advantages to Google Home that Alexa does not have. Google Home can draw from the massive amount of specific questions that Google search has received over the years to answer any absurd question that it receives from users while Alexa does not have that ability. It will simply say it is not able to answer the question. Both devices are another step forward to converting homes to smart homes. 
