SyntaxNet is an open-source POS-tagger and syntactic parser model developed by Google researchers. Using Tensorflow as a base, SyntaxNet views actions as data flow graphs, running them in sessions to complete assigned actions. After training, Syntaxnet creates a parse tree, tagging parts of speech, syntactic function and syntactic relationships between words. By using a new approach, pre-training a softmax neural network locally and then applying beam search golbally, SyntaxNet has obtained impressive results in a number of different languages. For example: Parsey McParseface (SyntaxNet trained on English corpora) has achieved the accuracy of 94%, being the best published parser by performance numbers, and even in Romanian it currently parses with an accuracy of 83% (the best that could be achieved from any other open-source parser was 78% - due to the lack of good Romanian corpora the results cannot be as impressive).

Since SyntaxNet is both written and used by Natural-Language-Processing and Natural-Language-Understanding enthusiasts, it is very well adapted to its consumers' needs and knowledge. By being open-source, quite fast to train and test and higly custimizable (one can easily change corpora, learning rates, graph architecture, decay steps, etc.), it is especially useful to many research groups worldwide, as it can help many to develop corpora and analyze text better, which is esential in many applications that require language to be processed (automatic extraction of information, translating, text analysis, speech understanding, etc.). 

SyntaxNet interacts with humans through computer commands, assuming that its users are knowledgeable about both machine learning and linguistics. Being designed mostly for advanced use, it doesn't provide an user-friendly interface, and instead uses technical commands to receive the information needed and also requires specific data types (conllu) and Ubuntu or OSX. It is a statistical model, so the training and tuning inputs are extremely important. Once trained, one has to write a script to parse standard input. Since SyntaxNet offers only a computational framework and knowledge, it cannot be destroyed by anyone or used to produce any harm to other users. 

Ever since its publication, SyntaxNet has been appreciated by researchers worldwide and, I believe, will soon become one of the most widely used tools in NLU, NLP and linguistics. Both Tensorflow and SyntaxNet are ever-evolving and adapt to the needs of its users and are therefore great in academic environments that work on artificial intelligence systems that need language analysis.
