Google Now is an AI system developed by Google. It's purpose is to serve as a digital assistant of sorts, where the user can speak voice commands to the device to perform various tasks such as setting an alarm, adding an event to a calender, texting a contact on your phone, looking up a fact, playing music, or opening various applications on your phone. The users of Google Now are primarily Android users, but people using other devices also have access to Google Now. The views of the userbase don't quite align with Google in that the users desire an easy-to-use, all-encompasing digital assistant and while Google aims to provide that, they also want people to user their Google search product and Google apps so that they can generate a more complete advertising profile of each user, thus increasing their revenue. It views the world through Google's extensive search datbase, which Google Now utilizes to efficiently answer queries. The natural language processing section of Google Now links words together through their relationship with eachother, as well as identifying key words such as names, places, or nouns. It interacts with humans through people talking into their microphone, and uses a type of AI called natural language processing to convert those sound files into syntax in which the computer can understand. It assumes that the people who use it are able to speak coherently in a dialect and language which the machine has been trained to process. If someone who had malicious intent inflitrated the Google Now system, they'd have the potential to harm and harrass millions of people. For example, they could erase  alarms that people have set, causing millions of people to oversleep! Something else that someone with maligned intentions could do is change the answers to Google Now's responses, e.g. having Google Now say that Abraham Lincoln is actually five feet and four inches tall instead of six feet and four inches tall. This would not only harrass the users sufficiently, but also damage Abe Lincoln's reputation as being a tall president.