Creative Generation of 3D Objects with Deep Learning and Innovation Engines

The Creative Generation of 3D Objects with Deep Learning and Innovation Engines project  was created by Joel Lehman and Sebastian Risi from the IT University of Copenhagen and from Jeff Clune University of Wyoming. The purpose of project is to create a machine that is able to create three dimensional objects without the constraints of “mathematical smoothness” or three dimensional objects that are like art made by people. Current interest seems to be surrounding the use of this technology for 3D printing purposes. Other potential applications include, machine created art and the use of this technology for generating 3D models for computer applications. The creators’ and the users’ goals align in that they both want three dimensional models, but they do not quite as closely align in what they intend to do with the models. The software views the world as a collection of shapes and patterns. Machine learning and self learning are very central. The artificial intelligence works by randomly generating a shape and then comparing it to how it perceives the object. Then it makes a change and compares it again. If the change makes it look more like the object then it keeps the change and the process continues. Some peripheral concepts include; color recognition and pattern recognition. It interacts with humans by creating visuals that humans can look at. It assumes that humans look for the same attributes it looks at for comparing objects including; color, shape and size. It also assumes that its own interpretation of the object trying to be created it a universal and valid interpretation. A hostile third party could use the software to create a model of a weapon and then 3D print the weapon to use to harm other people. Like many other forms of art it could also be used for propaganda.