Recently, many companies have started to develop self-driving cars that they hope will occupy the roads in a few years. In the forefront of this development is Google. They have been working for years on accomplishing this, and in the last year or so, they have started to test drive these on the road. Google is not the only company that has this feature in cars. Tesla and many other cars have self-driving functions; however, many of them are just used for parking. Eventually, these companies hope that self-driving cars will be the only cars on the road, and they hope that it will make driving safer overall. If these cars are finished in the future, they will be able to be used by all people. These people also want to be safe when they drive on the road, so their goals are aligned with the creators. It will likely learn the rules of the road and also be trained statistically to learn new environments. They will have sensors that allow them to see their environment and therefore be able to react to stimuli. It interacts with humans because humans are the ones that give it controls of where to go. It can also be stopped in the event of failure. A hostile user could theoretically sabotage the system by intentionally turning it off in a dangerous situation or by jumping in front of the car. In this instance, the car may not know what to do. It also presents important moral dilemmas since the car must likely at some point decide which is more valuable in terms of lives, similar to the trolley problem. However, it still would likely present a much safer driving environment on the road since here is not room for human error as much.