LISP is the second-oldest programming language that is still being actively used today, aiding the development of numerous ideas in computer science. In 1958, John McCarthy published LISP's design in a paper, showing how a few basic operators and function notations can build a Turing-complete language for algorithms. He called this language LISP, for "List Processing," because one of his key ideas was to use a simple data structure called a list for both code and data.  LISP was a departure fron existing languages, integrating many new ideas such as conditionals, a function type (functions became first class objects, giving users the abilty to pass them as arguments, to store them in variables, etc.) and recursion.
Since its inception, LISP was closely connected with the artificial intelligence research community. LISP was used as the implementation of the programming language Micro Planner which was used in the famous AI system SHRDLU.  LISP was successful in AI research for a few main reasons: it is an excellent prototyping tool(allowing interactive evaluation and recompilation of files while the program is still running, it supports symbolic programming well and it was considered very powerful thanks to its internal customizability.

These days most artificial intelligence research is done using other languages such as C++ and Python or with packages such as MATLAB and R. There are still a few groups that do use LISP for their AI projects (one such example is the one at Northwester University).

