Shakey the robot

Shakey is a mobile robot that is able to do simple and some complex task. It was named Shakey because the manner in which it walked was quite wobbly. Shakey was the first mobile robot that was able to reason through complex actions and break them down into simpler action. Before Shakey, machines similar to it had to be instructed each of the individual simple task instead of just one complex task so they require a great amount of human supervision and instruction. The A Star Algorithm was developed for Shakey. Shakey was created by Charlie Rosen and his team from the Stanford Research Institute and was funded by the Advanced Research Projects Agency(now known as the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency)(ARPA). ARPA was interested in using robots like Shakey for military reconnaissance. The goals the team had in mind for Shakey were to make Shakey moblie, able to solve problems, able to map an area, able to see with a video camera and able to accept commands with natural-language English. From Shakes perspective the world consisted of what is could see with it’s camera and feel with it’s touch sensors, which was a series of white rooms with mazes of red obstacles. The most central concept in the AI of Shakey is it’s ability to break complex problems into smaller pieces that can be simply and logically solved. Some less central concepts include converting plain english to more understandable instructions for Shakey, and the manner in which Shakey senses its environment. Shakey interacts with people by getting instructions from them. It assumes that the humans using it know and use proper, plain and modern English. A hostile third party could use it as a mobile soldier or terrorist because it is able to avoid obstacles, solve problems and get to checkpoints.