For my final project, I would like to work individually on one of the following ideas:
    1. Develop a poker playing AI bot using probablistic programming. I would start this project by simplifying the poker game to not involve betting. Based on the cards in its hand, the cards on the board, and the number of people playing, the bot would be able to predict the best hand overall (just based on the board) and its best hand in comparison using statistics of the number of cards left in the deck and basic poker hand rules. Once I got this working, I would make the bot learn the best hands and bet accordingly so that it could play the game properly.
    2. I spend most of my time programming for my robotics team, and one project we wanted to pursue was path-planning in game scenarios based on computer vision. To start this project, my final project for this course could be to research the different methods of path-planning for robotics. I am especially interested in path-plannnig within shifting environments, as during robotics competitions the game elements are constantly moving around. I would look at diverse papers within this field of study to collect the best methods and their implementation techniques. If I had leftover time, I would code a basic version of one of these algorithms or create a graphical representation to show how they differ. 
    3. I've always been very interested in the intersection of AI and biology. Therefore, I thought another potential final project could be to research different genetic algorithms for a specific disease (TBD) and try to implement a simple version of one of them. This would require using the techniques of machine learning and probabilistic programming that I've learned about throughout this course. I could go many different ways with this project, but would focus on a specific diease and approach to narrow down my focus. 